Hi Andrew and Ernesto

Ernesto: I forward your mail to Andrew for he currently works on the Guide. Concerning your question about your references. I did not change that part of the Guide for the alpha versions. Of course your contributions will be referenced and should already be so in the CVS.

Andrew: I am not sure if you already have an earlier version of Ernestos Chapter included in your current build. Please update or include his contributions.

Regards,
Adrian

---------------------------- Original Message ----------------------------
Subject: Fw: Comments on Chapter
From:    "Ernesto Arroyo" <earroyoron@yahoo.es>
Date:    Sun, February 27, 2005 18:37
To:      awiesmann@swordlord.org
Cc:      "Ernesto Arroyo Ron" <earroyo@sia.es>
         jparroyo@sia.es
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

RE: Comments on Chapter
Adrian,

Corrections of the document. I am sorry we were not able to send this before, but we (me and my colleague Jose Pedro) are very busy.

I attach a revised version and I include above  some comments on your corrections.

PD: I am receiving some versions of OWASP Guide, and none of them have references to our work (?).



-----Mensaje original-----
De: Adrian Wiesmann [mailto:awiesmann@swordlord.org] Enviado el: domingo, 12 de diciembre de 2004 0:15
Para: Ernesto Arroyo
CC: Andrew van der Stock; Jose Pedro Arroyo
Asunto: Comments on Chapter



Hi

And here are my comments as promised. Please note that these are suggestions and that my comments are meant as input. So if you think I comment something completely wrong, then lets start a discussion on that.
But now let's dive into your text:

You write about the Jakarta Project multiple times. I guess you mean the Apache Foundation. Apache or httpd is the Web Server, the Apache Foundation the organization behind the httpd and the Jakarta project.
Tomcat is the J2EE reference implementation of a servlet container and is developed by the Apache Foundation.

>>>> You are right. Maybe the text is confused in this. I have revised
this issue.

Languages in use: I did some inquiry on the webappsec mailing list some months ago to find out which applications and languages are used to program web applications. It was quite impressing how many developers still either use C++ or Perl via CGI to program web applications. OK, the .NET Framework will have changed quite a bit the last few months, but never underestimate the importance and influence of old technologies.

>>>> I don't know. I tried to do a google search for this, but,.... We 
>>>> can
include a paragraph to note this idea, talking about old technologies that are still in use.

Somewhere on the second page you write about reading the manufacturers information on the web to harden a service or application. While I agree on this I find it a little bit risky to only rely on the manufacturer for one simple reason: trust. The manufacturer has some interests in not showing every single problem his products has (Just think about MS and how they define and discuss their security problems...). Simply because he wants his products to look good so more people buy and use them. So relying on the manufacturers informations can be only risky. I suggest to better use a source like the full disclosure mailing list as well so one can reduce the risk of not being informed of problems.

>>>> Hmmmm... I think you should use both. The problem with the full
disclosure (or similar) is that you can use a lot of time to have a consistent guide to harden your system. On the other hand I agree the manufacturer sometimes does not give you all the info. >>>> But the idea is more focused to a good configuration more than to fix security bugs in the product. Anyway I think we should use both sources so I change this in the document.



As mentioned before, I wil put the authors informations to a central place of the whole guide, so every author can be found at the same place. Of course we will have some kind of link at the end so one can see which chapter is of which author.

>>>> you can cut the authors info

The section about the history of web technologies: You write about HTML being a presentation-protocol and HTTP being the session protocol. While I know what you mean I would not call HTTP a session protocol. Mostly because this is critical for developers. HTTP does not allow sessions.
When a developer stores information to a user session (like say payment

informations) this normally is a construct of either himself or of the framework in use and not of HTTP natively. What I mean with this is that if you say HTTP is the session protocol this implies that HTTP is session based and allows the construct of sessions natively. Which is wrong.
Sessions are either done with some hash in every URL or a cookie containing some kind of hash identifying the user. Which are both components of HTTP but not defined natively as session mechanisms.

>>>> We can write in other way, but HTTP is a session-layer protocol if 
>>>> we
are talking about OSI layers,. is a session-less protocol (no
session) so we should use the above protocols (application) to provide this functionality. Maybe this explanation in the doc. will be a good idea.

At the same place you write that a client sends an HTTP request and the server sends an HTML document back. Which is right, kind of :) But the server sends a document back, and the MIME Type of the document describes the content of the returned data. Which can be everything else than HTML.

>>> Yeeeees. You did not pass one :o)

Later on in the Javascript section: Javascript is not allowing the manipulation of the DOM in an *object-oriented* way, but in an

*object-based* way.

>>> Ok

You then go on about what Javascript can be used for: I know this is personal taste but perhaps you could write some sentences about the problems of using Javascript, or better what problems should be considered when using Javascript: Scripts are not guaranteed to be executed on the client. The client can either have a browser not able to execute Javascript or have that feature deactivated. It is annoying (and shows the developers skill) to visit a website which does not run only because some nifty menu required Javascript. Also: Javascript can be manipulated on the client side, so everything calculated and validated at the clients side has to be revalidated at the server. And last but not least. Having some Javascript running to "protect" a website is lame and shows that the developer has no idea of the technologies he develops on :)

>>>>>  Ok. We did not write about this 'cause we though this was beeing
covered in some other chapters. But I agree with you is very important and is good to mention here too.

Another problem I have with a sentence you write is a little bit into the applets and similar technologies section: There you write that the JVM and other applets and plugins have the risk of not running on every system as expected. While this is absolutely true, this is also true for HTML. Make a website, load it on IE for Win32, IE for Mac, Firefox, Opera, Konqueror, Navigator and if you are lucky they all look exactly the same. But normally they won't.

>>>> Yes, but the HTML is not executed, is only showed. If you build
HTML-standard you will be sure (al 99%) you will not have problems.
Of course this is not a 100% true, but I think the problem with applets are different.

The Active Server Pages and .NET Framework section: IMHO ASP is not like JSP. At least architecturally spoken. ASP is the technology which brings the Windows Scripting Host WSH to the IIS so that one can use Scripts which are processed at the clients request. Like that ASP is much like PHP. With the main difference that ASP can contain VBScript, JScript and any other scriptcode which has a scripting engine for the WSH (like ActievPerl and ActiveTCL...). And PHP only knows its own syntax.

ASP+ and JSP on the other hand have a virtual machine and compiled code 
ASP+ as
their base.

>>>>> I have to say that you know much more than me about ASP technology 
>>>>> :o)

Let's move to the Web Services: What I miss there is the information that Web Services are kind of decentralized executable business logic components. So perhaps somewhen soon a developer codes an application putting different web service components together. He will use the calculation from server a and will then feed service b with that result to get a persons earnings or something as example. What I mean with this is that I find it important to write about the evolution of decentralized components. When talking in MS language this would mean: COM -> COM+ -> WebService or something.

>>>>> I include a paragraph, I do not know if it is enough, anyway the
intention was to mention WS not to have a lot of detail in this.

Java Family: Java 2 enterprise Environment: J2EE is (unfortunately) not the one option. This changed quite a bit during the last months. I was impressed to see how widespread Java is used, but MS partners and houses normally opt for .NET.

>>>> We are not going to open a "commercial" discussion in the OWASP :o)
the sentence (my sentence) is a little bit,.. Direct,. we can write it less hard. :o)

Microsoft Family: Active Server Pages: Actually ASP has absolutely nothing to do with the .NET framework. Except that the web application thingy is names ASP+ within the .NET framework. But it must be absolutely clear that ASP != ASP+. Besides this ASP is no language but some interface to have IIS execute whatever is bound to the respective request. Which means ASP has more common with CGI than with a programming language. ASP executes scripts running in the Scripting Host and ASP+ executes code within the .NET framework. Which are two complete different technologies. The only thing they share are the first three letters :)

>>>>> as I said i am not an expert in NET or ASP but I tried to correct
this changing the sentence.

I then had another idea. It would be good to have references from your chapter to the rest of the guide. Because your chapter is one of the first in the guide and containing an overview of the rest of the guide it would be good to reference the chapters where the reader can find some further details to the topic in question. I am not quite sure how to do so at the moment for I guess we will need to have everything ready to cross link it.
But it is good for you to know that such kind of cross linking is planned and that you can somehow prepare this task.

>>>>> no problem. Well yes, there are 2 problems: few time and too many
work :o)  But we will manage this when needed..

Thats about it for the moment. I look forward for the next version of your chapter.

Regards,
Adrian

No virus found in this outgoing message.
Checked by AVG Anti-Virus.
Version: 7.0.300 / Virus Database: 266.5.0 - Release Date: 25/02/2005

